
Sunday, 30 November 2014
Letter Of Recommendation

It gives me great pleasure to introduce Zeneil  to the admission committee at your institute. I have known Zeneil since 3 years, and have taught him Computer Organization and Architecture and Robotics and artificial intelligence courses. I would like to give a brief account of his abilities, character and aptitude and present and evaluation of the same

The courses that I teach entail both theory as well as practical sessions distributed over the semester. Zeneil has performed well in the theory as well as the practical examinations of the Computer Organization and Architecture Course in his third semester and has scored well in the midterm as well as end term tests, of the Robotics and Artificial Intelligence Course, this semester.  Considering Zeneil’s performance and efforts over the last 2 years, I would like to highlight that he has demonstrated sound understanding of fundamentals and is well versed in the theoretical aspect of the courses. I would also like to add here that he is a quick learner and grasps new concepts with relative ease and a fast pace. His grasp of the subject many times extends beyond the scope of the specified syllabus, and as a result of his inquisitive nature and inherent aptitude he often tries to plumb many problems which are innately a part of the subject, often trying to come up with solutions to the same.

A recent example of this that I can give is of his study in the field of Local Search Algorithms, specifically that of Genetic Algorithms. His resolve to find a better solution to the problem of local optimum drove him to formulate a new method of crossover and his candour towards proving the integrity of his work drove him to calculate a very large number of datasets, in effect proving the efficacy of his approach. These results, which he published in the International Journal of Computer Engineering and Technology, are clear indicators of a creative mind and a passionate conviction towards his work

Another example of such excellence I can give is his thirst for pragmatic development, which can be seen from his ongoing work to develop an event based social network and notification center on a cloud infrastructure. His command on topics involving cloud computing and distributed computing or even security related matters of the same, some of which are not going to be even introduced to him academically in his baccalaureate degree, is commendable. Not only are feats such as this unique to his nature but it is also his ability to explain such concepts in layman’s terms to his juniors so that they may be able to maintain this network and add to it, along with his managerial skills which are truly outstanding

I am confident of Zeneil’s quantitative and qualitative abilities and I am certain that he is an ideal candidate for the Master’s Program at your university. His constructive attitude, immense potential and committed towards his work and institution as well as various other character traits render him as a unique candidate and it is in this context that I strongly recommend Mr. Zeneil Ambekar to your institution. Given an opportunity, Zeneil will surely excel in the university environment.


He was in my class for two core courses of Computer Science: Analysis of Algorithms and Artificial Intelligence. I can easily place him in the top 2% students in his batch.

I first became acquainted with  when he was heading the Faculty events on our departmental day as a First Year Engineering Representative of Computer Society India (CSI) – KJSCE council. I found him to be very polite, disciplined and quite responsible for a freshman. In the second year of Computer Engineering, I introduced him to a programming competition organized by Tata Consultancy Services and I was delighted to see his enthusiasm and interest in coding events. Over the years while managing his academics, he has participated in numerous technical events and he even won 1st prize in C-DAC computer programming contest (Digital India Week), Code-It by CSI-TSEC, Coding Competition by IETE-TSEC, and Code Swap by CSI-KJSCE. Raj also proved to be a source of inspiration to other students for taking interest in programming events when he along with his batch-mates initiated ‘KJSCE-CODECELL’, the CodeChef Campus Chapter of our institute in his third year. These activities have truly enhanced his leadership abilities and honed his communication skills.

I had conducted lectures for Analysis of Algorithms during his third semester. I would like to highlight that Raj was a regular attendee and was always focused on understanding the algorithms and their implementation. I am currently in-charge for lectures as well as practical sessions on Artificial Intelligence for his batch. While interacting with him regarding practical and assignments, it was always a delight to see his eagerness and hear out his ideas. I was impressed with his implementations of Breadth First Search on 4-queen’s problem, Greedy Best First Search on 8-puzzle problem, solution of 0-1 Knapsack problem using Genetic Algorithm and an agent-based game of Tic-Tac-Toe using Minimax algorithm. I can assert that his profound interest in Algorithms and Artificial Intelligence makes him strive hard to improve his skills in these fields, keeping him ahead of his peers. His innovative skills and well-planned and organized academic submissions are a testimony to his diligent application to his studies.
 
Raj had consulted me while selecting his Elective-II subject and I was happy to guide and help him choose Soft Computing which focuses on Fuzzy Logic, Artificial Neural Networks, Hybrid Systems and Optimization Techniques. It has helped him expand his knowledge and gain greater insight in the field of Artificial Intelligence. I believe in Raj, you will find a student who has the academic ability and the burning desire to do well in the master’s program at your university.
Raj is currently working on ‘Sentiment Analysis of social media responses using Machine Learning’ as his final year undergraduate project. I had reviewed his project during the progress seminar and I am really impressed with his research so far. I was indeed glad to see that he has ventured beyond the 


curriculum to gain exhaustive knowledge regarding Analytics and Machine Learning. I am confident that he and his team will be able to develop and demonstrate an excellent project prior to the end of current academic year.
In retrospect, I find Raj, to be an outstanding young man; he has underscored his great potentialities in academic and non-academic activities. He will surely be the pillar of the state if he gets enrolment in your university for further study. I very strongly recommend him and will appreciate your assistance to his application. 


It is with pleasure that I recommend Miss.  for graduate course in Artificial Intelligence at your university. I have known Shweta for two years in my capacity as her OS (Operating Systems), AOAD (Analysis of Algorithm & Design) and RAI (Robotics & AI) teacher and with this understanding I can vouch for her constant academic performance and dedicated approach to studies. 
A really hardworking an intelligent student, Shweta was one the best and sincere students in my class. As an individual, Shweta has a charming persona and an excellent etiquette. This has made her well-known among her class mates and also left an endearing mark on the faculty. She is a source of inspiration for everyone around her. 
Shweta was involved in building some very successful mini projects during her undergraduate years. One of her project for Web Engineering was creating an ‘Online Food Ordering System', which was extended as her E-commerce mini project to add additional facilities. She developed a fully functional website, a complete online ordering system which will allow restaurants to quickly and easily manage an online menu which customer can browse and use to place orders with just a few clicks.  Her love for helping people and her principle of bridging the gap between technology and business, and making web easier for everyone motivated her in building her other projects such as Airline Reservation System, Online Mobile Store and a Library Management software. 
Shweta has been rigorously preparing herself for the Masters program by attending seminars on Artificial Intelligence Planning which provided her with the idea and foundation in artificial intelligence techniques with an overview of the wide spectrum of different problems and approaches, including their underlying theory and applications. She also displayed her communication and presentation skills by giving presentation to create awareness on various topics such as cybercrime & security, environmental studies, e-learning, talent management and X-HTML. She won over everyone with her excellently researched material, her knowledge in the respective field and her lucid presentation.  
I am particularly impressed with her humble and ethical behavior. She possesses every pre-requisite for the course of Computer Science specializing in Artificial Intelligence at your university. In my view she will make an outstanding graduate student. I recommend her in the strongest terms for admissions to your esteemed university.


I would like to comment on Miss in regard to her application to graduate school. I have known her for two years in which time I have taught her Computer networks, Operating systems, Web technology and Artificial Intelligence. This has given me sufficient scope to assess her academically.

I have observed her to be a very intelligent and focused student. Her enthusiasm and willingness to learn is very evident from her attentiveness and active participation in the lectures. In all her practical sessions she exhibits strong logical reasoning and very good programming skills. Her clear understanding of concepts and innovative solutions to problems helps her to excel in both theory and practical sessions.

It is not surprising that Sharanya is among the top 10% of her class with an outstanding academic record of 72%. Her sincere and dedicated approach to her studies makes her a notch above her peers. Besides excelling in her academics, she has also succeeded as the cultural secretary of the college. She defines an ideal student; striking a perfect balance between academics and extra curricular activities.

She possess all the qualities required to pursue graduate school. Her keenness to learn, enthusiasm and sincerity will definitely assist her to stand out in the masters program of your esteemed university. I strongly recommend her for admission as she has the potential to exceed your expectations for an incoming student.



